*CW. D. Johnston, Computer Generated Maps, part 1. Byte May 
1979. p10. ff.*ADescribes general algorithms for handling 
geographic data and converting it to various projections.  
Includes discussion of building a data base.  Several nice 
example maps.*KGRAPHICS /MAPS /PROJECTIONS /*E 
*CBlum, R., Representing Three Dimensional objects in your 
copumter. Byte May 1979. p14 ff.*ADiscusses input of data for 
three dimensional objects. Examples of digitizing photogrraphs 
from two different positions.*KGRAPHICS / 3-D /DIGITIZER 
/PROJECTIONS /*E 
*CRitter, T. and J. Boney. M6809 is silicon. Byte, May 1979. 
p30-31.*ADescribes initial fire-up of Motorola M6809 
chip.*KMICROPROCESSOR /6809 CPU /NEWS /*E 
*CCiarcia, Steve, Communicate on a Light Beam. Byte, May 1979 
p32 ff.*ADescribes some experiments with fiber optics.  Uses a 
small laser for light beam communication at low bit 
rates.*KHARDWARE /FIBER OPTICS /LASER /*E 
*CMorgan, Christopher, The Superboard II, A suprising single 
board computer from OSI. Byte May 1979.*AA short description of 
the OSI 6502 based SBC with BASIC in ROM.  Note that a limited 
floppy disc system is available.*KOHIO SCIENTIFIC /6502 CPU  
SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER /BASIC /*E 
*CHaas, Bob, Single chip video controller. Byte May 1979. 
p52.*ADescribes the characteristics of four new video 
controller chips. The Intel 8275, Motorola MC6845, National 
Semiconductor DP8350, Standard Microsystems Corp. 5027. These 
devices incorporate many video circuit functions which 
simplifies making alphanumeric and in some cases, graphic 
capability.  The MC6845 is most extensively discussed, with a 
circuit diagram included.*KVIDEO CONTROLLER /VIDEO DISPLAY /*E 
*CLentz, Bob. 6800 Disassembler. Byte May 1979. 
p104-106.*AShort description and listing of a 6800 
disassembler.*K 6800 CPU /DISASSEMBLER /ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE /*E 
*CBeard, David J. Spacewar in tiny BASIC. Byte, May 
1979.*APresents some BASIC routines to do coordinate 
transformations for use in 3d spaceship model.*KGAMES 
/SIMULATION /COORDINATE TRANSFORMATION / 3-D /BASIC /*E 
*CTennant, Chris. The Intel 8275 CRT controller. Byte, May 
1979. p130.*ADescribes a video display made with the Intel 8275 
chip. Long and extensive article.*KVIDEO CONTROLLER /CIRCUIT 
/*E 
*CSmith, Randy C. Smart Memory, part 2. Byte, May, 1979 p 
150.*AGives "black box" logic diagrams for associative memory 
circuits. Part one contained the main description of 
uses.*KASSOCIATIVE MEMORY / MEMORY /*E 
*CMaurer, W. D. Simultaneous input and output for your 8080. 
Byte, May 1979 p164.*AGives assembly language examples for 
queue manipulation which can be used to give "simultaneous" 
input - output.*K 8080 CPU /ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE /QUEUES /IO /*E 
*CGorney, Len. Queuing theory, The science of wait control  
Part 2: System types. Byte, May, 1979, p176.*AShort discussion 
of applications of queue simulation. Example simulation in 
BASIC of one pump gas station.*KSIMULATION /QUEUES /BASIC /*E 
*CBall, John A., Trigonometry in two easy black boxes. Byte, 
May, 1979 p184.*ADescribes use of "CORDIC" transformation 
techniques in two subroutines.  Only adds, subrtracts, shifts, 
and multiply - divide functions are needed.  These routines 
apparently have some favorable speed properties. Example 
program given in BASIC.*KCOORDINATE TRANSFORMATION /BASIC  
 TRIGONOMETRY *E
E
uss 
patterns of blooms a