=================================================================

                            H P R S X

              A Programmer's Integer RPN Calculator
                      CP/M 2.2 RSX Version

                  Version 1.0    July 20, 1989

                       Copyright (c) 1989
                               by
                           Terry Hazen
                      21460 Bear Creek Road
                       Los Gatos, CA 95030

                 Voice.......... (408) 354-7188
                 Saratoga RBBS.. (408) 354-5934
                 Zee-Machine.... (408) 245-1420


  HPRSX and its documentation may not be circulated in any
  incomplete or modified form without written permission of the
  author.  Any commercial use of HPRSX where the user receives
  revenue by duplicating or distributing HPRSX by itself or in
  conjunction with any hardware or software product is expressly
  prohibited unless authorized in writing by the author.  All
  rights reserved.

=================================================================

Have you ever been using an editor to write source code and
needed to know how many 128 byte records A00h worth of code took
up or needed to know the binary equivalent of a character?  Or
have you ever looked at a file with ZPATCH and tried to figure
out relative jumps from an address?  The HP11 RSX lets you do all
that without leaving the utility you are currently using!


Note
----

This file describes only the specific features of the RAM-based
HP11 RSX calculator.  See HP11.DOC for instructions on using the
HP11 calculator.


Introduction
------------

HPRSX creates a CP/M 2.2 resident system extension (RSX) version
of the programmer's integer RPN calculator program HP11.COM that
allows the calculator to remain installed in memory, always
available for use, even within another program!

HPRSX will run on any CP/M 2.2 system using a Z80-equivalent
processor.  It emulates a simple integer Hewlett-Packard RPN
calculator, that has hex, decimal, binary, and character display
modes.

HPRSX creates a memory-based HP11 RSX based on the Plu*Perfect
CP/M 2.2 RSX standard developed by Bridger Mitchell (see his
column in The Computer Journal issue #34, p30 for more
information).  It will interface correctly with RSX's such as
DateStamper and the ZSDOS LDTIM RSX that have been designed to
the same standards.  If you are using HPRSX with other RSX's, you
must determine for yourself whether they are compatible with
HPRSX.

When installed, the HP11 RSX occupies less than 1200 bytes of RAM
just under the CCP or the last installed RSX, and is protected
from being overwritten by transient programs.  If you attempt to
install it more than once, an error message containing the load
address will be displayed.

The HP11 RSX can be called up for use at any time, even from
within another program, by entering an intercept character.  The
HP11 RSX has 'continuous memory'.  It is initialized when first
loaded to memory.  Each time you exit and later return to the
HP11 RSX, the stack and memories will remain exactly as you last
left them.

If you no longer need the HP11 RSX and wish to recover the memory
it occupies, you can use HPRSX to remove it from memory provided
that it is the bottom RSX, or it can be removed with a cold boot
(reset).  If you try to remove the HP11 RSX when another RSX is
installed below it, an error message will be displayed.


Installation
------------

HPRSX will operate in CP/M 2.2 or ZCPR3 environments.  Operation
in CP/M 2.2 or ZCPR3.3+ environments requires no installation.

When operating in ZCPR3.0 environments, the environmental address
may be installed using your usual method if you wish the current
program name to be displayed in the HELP and installation
messages.


Syntax
------

     A0>HPRSX                - Install the HP11 calculator
     A0>HPRSX R or /R        - Remove the HP11 calculator
     A0>HPRSX ? or //        - HELP screen

When installed:
     Type Control-@ (^@)     - To invoke the HP11 calculator
     Type Control-C (^C)     - To exit the HP11 calculator


Operation
---------

The HP11 calculator is used according to the instructions in
HP11.DOC.  HP11 works by watching the BIOS calls for character
input from the keyboard.  If it sees the intercept character
Control-@ (^@ -> 00h) entered, it invokes the HP11 calculator,
which starts its display at the beginning of the current cursor
line.

The HP11 display is only overlaid on the screen and does not
become part of the program from which it was called.  When you
exit HP11, the HP11 display, which consists of the first part of
the current cursor line, is cleared, leaving the cursor at the
beginning of the cleared HP11 display.  You are returned to
EXACTLY where you were in the program you were running, which
doesn't know that it has been interrupted and is still expecting
input from you.

The HP11 RSX does not actually affect the program text that the
screen is depicting, just the screen display, which may need
refreshing.  If the cursor is located on a blank line when you
invoke the HP11 RSX, as is the case with ZPATCH, no screen
refresh will be needed when you exit.  In any case, however,
normal activity in the program you are running should soon
refresh the line partially cleared by HP11.  In a text editor,
for example, the partially cleared HP11 display line will soon be
replaced by the text that's really there when you shift the
screen display up or down, which moves the partially cleared line
off the screen, or when you move text around, covering the
partially cleared line.  If you are running ZDE, you can also
quickly refresh the screen using the commands ^O-Z and <ESC>.

HP11 may produce unexpected effects in programs that use memory-
mapped video.  However, these cosmetic differences shouldn't
interfere with use of the calculator, or with normal editing.

When you exit HP11 after invoking it from the command line, the
cursor will be left in place at the beginning of the cleared HP11
display and the CCP will still be expecting input from the
original command prompt, just as it was when you invoked HP11.
Entering a <RET> will move the cursor to the next line complete
with a new command prompt, but this isn't really necessary.


Applications
------------

When you are examining a file using DDT, ZPATCH, or other
debugger, the HP11 RSX is very handy for calculating offsets,
addresses, etc.  While HP11.COM can also be run from ZPATCH using
the 'Z' command, the RSX version is much faster, since it doesn't
require loading or reloading ZPATCH and the file being examined.

The HP11 RSX is very useful when you are using WordStar, ZDE or
other text editor to write programs or documentation.  You can
use it for doing calculations and also for converting numbers to
different bases.

Since the HP11 RSX retains the contents of all registers between
the times it is accessed, these registers can be used as a note
pad to store data that you want available later, perhaps from
within a different program.  For example, while you are viewing a
LST or PRN file, you can store addresses to be used later when
you are writing documentation.

Remember to invoke the calculator with the cursor on a blank
line, if possible, to eliminate the need for screen refresh when
you exit from HP11.


Acknowledgements
----------------

Bridger Mitchell's Advanced CP/M columns in The Computer Journal
on relocation (TCJ #33, p9) and his Plu*Perfect CP/M 2.2 RSX
standard (TCJ #34, p30) as well as Jay Sage's ZCPR3 Corner column
on PRL files (TCJ #34, p20) provided the information and
incentive for me to develop the PRL bitmap generator used to
produce the bitmap for the HP11 RSX and the relocator used in
HPRSX.  Easy production of relocated code without expensive
commercial utilities!  Thanks, guys!


Modifications
-------------

HPRSX.COM has several locations that can be patched using DDT,
PATCH, ZPATCH, etc, to alter the operation of the program to suit
the user.  See the file HPRSX.PAT for more information.

=================================================================
