================================================================

                           KAYAK RACE

                        [Kaypro version]

     Game and text are copyright (c) 1986 by Peter Donnelly
              and may not be distributed for gain

================================================================

                           THE FILES

The complete game comprises the following files:

KAYAK.COM  - the command file. Adjusts automatically for 
             graphics and non-graphics Kaypros.
KAYAK.HLP  - instructions called from KAYAK; also TYPEable.
KAYAK.ARL  - optional title page. If you have a non-graphics
             Kaypro, hide (rename) or delete this file.
KAYAK.DOC  - TYPEable to screen or printer.

                         TIDAL CURRENTS

The rate of current for each turn is calculated according to a 
formula taken from "Chapman Piloting." This formula reveals that 
the rate of increase and decrease is not arithmetical but sinus-
oidal, the result being that the average flow is high - about 
63% of maximum - while periods of relatively slack water are 
minimal. The following graph illustrates a typical curve of 
rates in a narrow passage subject to swift currents, on a day 
when the maximum flood occurs two hours after the first slack 
and three and a half hours before the second one.

Time       Rate (knots)
(h)     1   2   3   4   5                 Notes
 0  |   .   .   .   .   .
    |****   .   .   .   .   <-- The current rises to 1 kn in
    |********   .   .   .       the first quarter-hour...
    |***********    .   .   <-- ...and reaches over half its
 1  |************** .   .       maximum after only 45 minutes.
    |*****************  .       
    |****************** .
    |********************
 2  |********************   <-- The rate is within .2 kn of its
    |********************       maximum for more than an hour.
    |*******************        
    |*******************
 3  |****************** .   
    |*****************  .
    |****************   .
    |************** .   .
 4  |************   .   .   <-- Two hours after maximum, the
    |***********    .   .       current is still at 62% of full.
    |*********  .   .   .       
    |*******    .   .   .
 5  |****   .   .   .   .    
    |** .   .   .   .   .    
 5.5|   .   .   .   .   .    

An excellent introduction to the factors influencing tidal 
streams in straits and sounds, along with much other lore of 
interest to kayakers and other mariners, is to be found in 
Richard E. Thomson's "Oceanography of the British Columbia 
Coast," published by the Canadian Department of Fisheries and 
Oceans.

                     CORRECTING FOR CURRENT 

The calculation of what course to steer in order to exactly 
offset a current flowing at right angles to the desired 
direction of travel depends on the solution of a right-angled 
triangle ABC, where the known quantities are AC, the speed of 
the boat through the water, and CB, the speed of the current.

                                      C     
                                      .               
                              _     . |               
                              /|  .   |               
                      Paddling  .     |   Current     
                       speed  .       |      |        
                            .         |      |        
                          .           |      V        
                        .             |               
                    A ._______________| B             
                  Speed over ground -->               

We desire to know the angle BAC. The necessary trigonometrical 
formula is:

                      sin BAC = BC/AC

The length of AB in the triangle indicates how much progress the 
boat will make toward its destination in 1 hour. The value can 
be calculated using the Pythagorean theorem: the square of AC 
equals the square of AB plus the square of BC. 

If the application of the triangle is not clear to you, first 
consider a situation where there is no current, and look at the 
triangle as a map whose sides are measures of distance rather 
than speed. (It comes to the same thing: AC is the distance the 
boat travels through the water in one hour.) Say the line AB 
runs from west to east. If the paddler sets off from A and paddles
directly to C, he travels eastward the length of AB and north-
ward the length of BC. Now add the effect of a current running
from north to south. The paddler's direction and distance 
travelled through the water are the same, but now the whole body 
of water has moved to the south. Thus if the paddler has moved 
northward 1 mile, while the current has been flowing southward 
at 1 knot, his net progress on the north-south axis is nil and 
he ends up at B.

The simplest way for the paddler "in the field" to find the 
angle of correction and resulting speed over ground is to 
construct the above triangle with pencil, paper, and the ruler 
and protractor on a transparent compass. First draw CB to scale 
for the speed of the current. Then draw a long baseline at right 
angles from B. Now lay the ruler so that the zero mark is at C
and the mark for paddling speed touches the baseline, forming the
line AC. 

The following table shows the necessary angle of correction and 
resultant speed over ground at various current speeds, always 
supposing a paddling speed of 3 knots.

         Current    Angle     Ground speed
                        o          
           .25 kn      5          2.99 kn
           .5         10          2.96
           .75        14          2.9
          1.0         19          2.8 
          1.25        25          2.7
          1.5         30          2.6 
          1.75        36          2.4
          2.0         42          2.2 
          2.25        49          2.0
          2.5         56          1.7
          2.75        66          1.2
          3.0         90          0.0

The surprising thing that emerges from the table is how little 
effect a correction against the current has on forward progress; 
even when the current is running at two-thirds of the speed of 
the boat, the speed over ground is diminished by only 27 %. 
However, ground speed diminishes more rapidly as the angle of 
correction increases - again following a sine curve. The appli-
cation of this phenomenon in the game, as on the water, is that 
the paddler must overcorrect when the current is weak so that he 
can undercorrect when it is strong. 

Consider the case of two racers who paddle at 3 knots from point 
A toward point B for two hours. For the sake of simplicity, let 
the current through the first hour flow at 1 knot, and through 
the second hour at 2 knots. Going by the table above, the first 
paddler steers 19 degrees against the current in the first hour 
and 42 degrees in the second, staying on course the whole time 
and covering a total of 5 miles over ground: 2.8 miles in the 
first hour and 2.2 in the second. Meanwhile the second paddler 
keeps a steady bearing of 30 degrees. In the first hour he 
covers 2.6 miles in the direction of AB (a bit more over ground, 
since he is deviating from the line) and moves 1.5 miles against 
the current, ending up 0.5 mile off course in the upstream 
direction. In the second hour he again moves 1.5 miles against 
the current, which now at 2 knots pushes him back the half-mile 
he has gained, so that he is once more on course; meanwhile he 
has moved another 2.6 miles along AB, for a total of 5.2, and is 
a fifth of a mile ahead of his opponent.

What has happened in this race becomes even clearer if you draw 
another triangle in which BC is the total drift of the current, 
3 miles, and the base AB is the distance toward the goal, 5.2 
miles, covered by the second paddler in two hours by paddling 
straight along AC, which is 6 miles long. Since the first paddler
 has zig-zagged through the water, his line from A to C will 
have an elbow in it, and in fact will not reach C; thus he must 
paddle further in order to make the same distance AB.

Evidently, then, the ideal strategy in KAYAK RACE (as much as it 
is permitted by other considerations such as winds and hazards) 
is to keep to a single heading throughout the race, bearing 
upstream in weak currents, even steering with the current at 
times, rather than attempting to stay always close to the centre.
To determine the correct bearing, of course, you must estimate
the average or net effect of the current over the whole game - 
something that is by no means easy to do.

                      CORRECTING FOR WIND

Since the effects of moderate and strong winds in the game are 
known constants, they can simply be added to or subtracted from 
the current rate. Only the easterly or westerly push is signifi-
cant to the necessary angle of correction in a given turn, but 
the north-south component will affect the boats' speed toward 
the goal and hence the net effect of the current over the whole 
game. For example, an outlook for strong southerlies would give 
greater weight to the currents later in the day.

When the wind is not blowing from one of the cardinal points, 
its effect on the east-west movement of the boats will be about 
70% of its total effect (again using the Pythagorean theorem; 
the east-west co-ordinate is one short side of a right-angled 
triangle). So a strong wind from the NW, for example, would add 
0.7 knots to the effect of a westerly current.

                                   Peter Donnelly
                                   964 Heywood Ave., Apt. 220
                                   Victoria, B.C.
                                   Canada V8V 2Y5
================================================================
